But yeah, it's all set. So you were born here in
Texas, huh? No, no, ma'am. Go ahead. It's fine. I
was born in Victoria, Texas in 1919. You have been
here a while. At the end of this month. So I'll be 57
years old. And at age one, my family moved back to
our home the home country of Georgetown, Texas,
which is in Wilson County. Where's that? I mean...
It's about 30 miles north of Austin. And this
central part of the state is rich in history in that
the Chisholm Trail and a number of the other cattle
drive routes went through that country
because... of the formation of the land. If you
follow Highway 81 South in North Texas, say, over
down to Waco and on down to Georgetown, Austin, San
Marcos, San Antonio, if you'll notice on the west
side, there's mostly ranching land. It's a pretty
rough country, but right along that edge, there's
a number of major streams that come off the Cap Rock
in the high country there and go leading on into the
Gulf. And this is the lower flatlands that run
through there. And there's also that area is
predominated by the black lands of Central Texas.
Yes, sir. So this was a... A favorite place around
my hometown in Georgetown was a favorite place by
the Comanche Indians. And as a young person, we
knew of a campground where they had congregated
and oftentimes went over and waited to find a
number of artifacts such as their head and things
of this sort. Was it your parents that decided to
stay here, or did you have earlier ancestors? My
grandmother, my great-grandmother, came to
Texas right after the Civil War. And she was a crass
widow, referred to in those days. In other words,
she and her husband had separated, but she had two
young sons that she brought to Central Texas. to
join a family over there in that area by the name of
Glascott. And incidentally, the city of
Georgetown is named after my great-great-uncle,
who was a Mr. George Glascott. And back in 1848,
when the settlers around that part
And at that particular location, decided they
wanted to build a town, and they needed some land to
do it with. Well, this Mr. George Laskar gave them a
square mile of land. And he said, the only
requirement is that I'll give you the land
provided you'll name it Georgetown. But it later
changed to Georgetown. He's the only piece of
history. Right. And so my family, Mr. Glasscock
and some of the other early settlers there
received the land grants from not only the Spanish
government, but they also received grants of land
from the state in its early days. And those lands
were handed down to my grandfather and then to my
father, who in turn, during the Depression, had
the divest themselves of them because of the,
well, economic challenges. Yes, sir. Have you
ever moved out of Texas? Have you ever lived
somewhere else? Yes. I, after graduating from A&M
in 1940, I was commissioned second lieutenant
infantry, and after nine months of work, I was
called active duty and remained on active duty in
the armed forces. for 22 years and retired as a
colonel. And you've lived in a lot of different
places, I'm sure. Yes, it's been my privilege to
serve in several overseas stations, such as
Korea, Japan, Philippines, Germany, and in a
number of states throughout the nation. My father
was an Air Force Lieutenant Colonel, and I myself
have lived in the Philippines with him before.
different places. What part of the Philippines
were you in? Manila. We live in Quezon City. Inside
a compound, I guess is what you call it. But you
decided to move back here to Texas. Well, of
course, this was home. The slogan is from Waco.
Most of our families live in the central Texas
area. So when I retired, I was in Dallas at the time
and was ready to go back to work for some. And right
after I retired, I was given, made an offer to come
back to Texas A&M University to serve here on the
staff. And I've been here for 13 years as a member of
the, I'm the director of student financial aid.
Well, I know where to come. Do you enjoy your work?
Oh, yes, very much. That's good. It's a great
place. It's a great place to work. Do you have a lot
of relatives that are still living here in Texas?
No, we don't. Our family consisted primarily of
the
great-grandmothers I referred to earlier, with
two sons.
And one of the sons moved out into West Texas, and
that part of the family just completely
disappeared. My grandfather had
three sons, my father and the other son. And they
all passed on, and so there are some cousins that
live in the area, but not a great number. Yes, sir.
Well, I guess you've enjoyed your life here in
Texas. If you had a choice, would you live anywhere
else now, or would you stay here, or a different
part of Texas, maybe? Well, that's hard to say. I
was very fortunate to have grown up in a small town
like Georgetown, as you probably know. Yes, sir.
The University of Southwestern. This had a vital
influence on the town. The citizens are made up of a
wide variety of persons of German extraction,
Swedish, Polish, English, Scotch-Irish, and the
Mexicans and Negroes. And there was a real good mix
of people there. And it was a fine Christian town to
have the influence of the university. It helped
the educational processes there. Yes, sir. And
so, but it is not a place where you could make a
fortune for a state. You say you lived in
Georgetown and then here and in Dallas. Was there
anywhere else that you lived since you were in
Texas? In Texas? Well, I worked in Waco for a while.
And at one time during my career videos, I was a
professor of military science in Texas. And those
are the only places that, well, after Mrs. Logan
and I first married, we lived in Galveston for
about 18 months. And for that, while we were going
out into other states and overseas. What part of
Texas did you enjoy the most, and maybe there's
another part that you haven't lived yet that you
thought would be more enjoyable in the way of maybe
geography or, you know, different parts of it that
you might like to live there. Oh, I don't know. I
think this area is just about as good a living area
as you can find.
There's a good thing for each place. Good thing to
be said. I do not like... I
guess
it has. That's a very good topic. What kind of
changes have you noticed since you first moved
here? when you were a cadet here to now in this area?
Well, when I was a cadet here, my senior year, we
moved into the cadet dormitory. That was the first
year in 1939, the first year that area was
occupied. And that was what got us named the new
dormitory. And so we moved in there. And we...
where Mosier and Kruger and Dunn and so forth
buried. You notice there's a horse barn there?
Yes, sir. There was all this area to the south and
east was cattle and horses and things of this sort.
And in the cadet corps, when we had field problems,
we would start our field problem exercises,
company platoon, battalion-sized field
exercise. We would have our starting point. over
where College View is now and come across that open
grass area where the photo team practices and
people get out and get golf shots and go on across
what's now the golf course. And this high point
over here where we're sitting tonight in this
wooded area was the enemy objective. And this is
where you'd wind up your exploration. The
movement of the front gate to the east side of the
campus occurred about two years before 1936. Most
of the traffic that came to the campus came by way of
Westgate. And, of course, the railroad there and
the railroad station were a focal point of
interest. You said, sir, that you were In the class
of 39, there was a veterinarian back in my
hometown. I don't know his first name. I know his
name was Dr. Davis. He was kind of a well-built man
in the way that he was pretty big. And then there's
another guy named Robert Cherry, who was the mayor
of my hometown. Do you remember those guys? I
remember Davis. Now, my class is 40. Of course, I
regularly live in 40. In our senior year, the first
was the fall semester, wasn't it? I graduated in
40, but I remember Davis. Terry, I don't place
right offhand, but I may. If you have your old
yearbook, you might be able to look him up. He's
about 6'1". He's a well-built man. He runs the main
laundry back in my hometown in Jamaica. Well, you
said that the traffic was changed to the east side
about two years before you got here. How about the
town here, Brian, College Station? College
Station here and there? College Station, there
was about three stores up there where Northgate is
now. It was down by the railroad, where the
railroad underpass is. Of course, now there was no
underpass. There was just a the road just went up
over the railroad and it's pretty rough crossing
but on that corner was the gulf swimming station
the principal garage and swimming station up
above was a couple of grocery stores and and then
the rest of it just uh warmly and there were a few few
uh stores over around east gate a couple of there
but uh that was the extent of it and uh Actually
there was a grocery store on campus, there was a
barber shop, there was the soda fountain right
there in the YMCA building, and there was a bowling
alley and swimming pool in that area. And so the
laundry was here. As I say, there was one garage,
and that was it. That's for both towns? That was for
college patients. How about Bryan? Now, Bryan
was... Bryan started about where...
Now, let's see. Let's do landmark.
You know where...
where the Shamrock Station is on South College,
that Y there. Brian just about began there and went
on into the main part, the business part of Brian,
was down on Main Street. And there used to be buses
that you could ride. I missed the trolley. I didn't
get to ride the trolley, but there were buses, and
went back into it. So there was kind of a... A
difference between the cities back then? Oh,
yeah. Well, it was a distinct area. In fact, there
was quite a few good farms right in there. Was that
kind of the place to go? Was there something to do in
Bryan? Oh, there was a couple of eating places
downtown where you'd go down and you had money to
purge and what have you. Dominic's had a pretty
good looking waitress. I guess there just weren't
that many girls at all back then anyway. No, there
were, but the only young ladies that were on campus
were the professors' daughters and those who,
daughters of the military people. Now, of course,
the professors and the military staff all lived on
campus at the time. In fact, Dean's Row was right
there where the MSC is. And there was a number of
large homes there on that street that just faced
the drill field where the MSC is. And this was where
we deemed the college, Dean Kyle, Dean Gilchrist,
and Dean
Gustafson, and then There were several others,
and where the trigon is now was where the confidant
song was. There was a large phone there, and John
Moore had received a lot of attention because he
had a very pretty view of the development of
Francis. So then you moved away from here. in uh
what 41 40 40. i lived here in 40 and we went off to the
service i went to well i went to work in waco and i was
there for nine months and then i called active duty
went from there to galveston served in galveston
for about two years and then was transferred up to
north carolina Georgia, and then overseas. And
then finally wound up in Japan and stayed there for
almost three years before he came back and was
stationed in New York City. And then back to
Georgia, and then to Germany, and then to
Stephenville, Texas. To Stephenville. Then when
was the, you moved back here 13 years ago, is that
what you said? What kind of, uh, did you visited a in
between the time you were back to Stephenville? I
had been here one, one
time when I was a military staff at Carlton State
College. Why? There wasn't a meeting here and we
came down and attended a Okay,
now that was after the time you returned to
Stephenville? Okay, so when you moved back here,
then you should have noticed the big change. What
was your first impression when you came back here?
Well, the biggest change, of course, that I
noticed was that The Coke building was new. There
was no such thing as that. There were several of the
older buildings that were gone. The MSC was new, or
had been built since I was here. And G. Riley White
had been put in. There had been some change to Kyle
Field. There were several dorms that had been
built over in the Salugan dorm there in the south.
Northwest Department. I didn't know that it was
that first year that they let the civilians in. I
thought it was 64. Actually, military science was
first declared non-compulsory in about 1954, the
first time. And it was for about three years it was
not compulsory in there. You didn't have to be in
the Corps. But then they were in the board of
directors reinstated again. I don't remember how
long it was. But now when I came back here in 63, the
court was not compulsion.
There was a size and no large number of students. Of
course, in my day, there was a lot of students that
were not in the core really. They wore the uniform,
but they were not known as the Corps of Cadets. They
lived in the Corps because there was no place else
to go. Oh, I see. They were called non-regs in our
day. Oh, and then we turn the term over to all
civilian students on campus now. I refer to you as
non-regs by the people in the Corps. When you came
back here, was all the farmland between College
Station and Bryan now pretty much gone? Yes, it was
pretty well gone. There had been... A lot of
building take place in between here and Bryant,
even in that short period of time. There's been
quite a few additions. Of course, this area out
south of here, when we first moved in here, there
was only houses about three blocks south of us. In
that time, it's gone all the way past the west
bypass How about,
you know, I noticed downtown Bryan is just kind of
unique all by itself. It's kind of an old addition
now back on the, uh, about two streets off from now,
the main street, I guess. And then you have all the
new, you know, everything, Denny's and things
down on the other street. Was that, uh, was that
about the way it was when you were here in 63 or was
it, uh, The main street's still over there where
all the old buildings were. At that time, the only
major shopping center outside of downtown Bryan
was the
Manor East
Shopping Center. What was that? No, not Manor
East. What is the one where it's here? Townshire.
Townshire was the only other major shopping
center, and it had become very... widely used. But
still, many of you have to go to downtown Bryan at
that time. There were more stores along North Gate
over here. And
the Redmond Cherry Shopping Center had just been
built. It was new and just getting started. Yes.
One of the things that my teacher has noticed about
people that are now living in Texas is that it seems
like a lot of them were born here, moved away, and
then returned here to retire. And one of the
questions she was asking us was to find out if the
people we were interviewing would know any
friends of theirs that would say moved away and
moved back, and why this syndrome is for the people
to move back to Texas to retire. Is there something
about it just being home? Because there's a lot of
other states that aren't known as home states,
like maybe somewhere like maybe California
people might be born in California and then not
really move back there too much, live in other
places. Well, if you've ever lived in other
places, I think that's a good reason to come back.
There are some places like, oh, there's some
beautiful places in Georgia and Oregon and
Washington State that we seriously consider,
particularly in Washington, Oregon, I seriously
consider moving to a retirement place. Was that up
in the mountains? No, it's along the seacoast.
And it's fine climate and so on. But I think one of
the reasons is Texans are family oriented. And the
family still means a lot to many of us. My mother was
born here. So we came back primarily with the idea
that we had four children, and we wanted our
children to know their grandparents, know their
cousins, and the rest of the family, you see. So we
moved back into Texas. Well, the Army was good to
us. Unfortunately, due to the assignment in my
last four years, I was assigned to headquarters in
Pentagon, Washington, but my duty station is in
Dallas, Texas. Oh, I see. So when we got ready to
retire, we were already located in the area that we
were going to stay here. My mother was born in
Denison, Texas. That's where I'm from. I don't
know if you know where that is. All her family was
born in Denison or in eastern Texas where the pine
trees are. And everybody is always in touch, you
know, pretty much still. And even when the third or
fourth cousin of somebody dies, there's a big
funeral and everybody goes down to it and still
gets together for reunions down there. Well, my
father, his family live in southern Alabama in the
German community because my last name is
Dornstotter. I hadn't realized you might be a good
infection. Oh, yeah. Actually, it's a
Dornstatter. Yeah. And they don't get together
too much. They know pretty much who's alive and
who's not, but that's about it. But I did notice
that Texas was a big family community type thing.
People, even if their cousins live all over the
city, they still know pretty much where everybody
is and keep in touch. Well, they... Like Mrs.
Logan's family, their name, they're scholars in
Swiss German, German-Swiss. They always have a
family union on Labor Day, and they're quite a
large family. There's about 70 or 80 people that
congregate, and it's quite a time. I mean, even
outsiders like me, I know everybody. And this, I
think, is one of the reasons that people come back
to Texas. And there's...
There is an honesty and an openness and a
friendliness about people from Texas that I don't
think we find in a lot of other places. You haven't
lived around the world,
too. It's something that we gained, I think, from a
heritage from our forefathers who established
this country. personally a lot to do with it is
there are many states that have the same type of
area for the whole state because they're not very
big, like in the New England countries, but in this
state you can, as a resident, you can go from
mountains to, you know, up in Dalhart where it
snows all the time to, say, Galveston in South
Texas, and you can go to about anywhere and find
your type of climate that you pretty much want,
except for maybe like an area like Oregon or
Washington where the they have a rough cold
climate and the storms that are always coming
through and things like that. Well, it's the
course of climate we deal with. You have enough
change in the seasons that it doesn't become very
monotonous like you find out in Hawaii and other
places like that. So the climate, there is a lot of
opportunity here in the state. And then again, the
family ties, I think, And there's a feeling not
only among Aggies, but also among Texans that,
well, it's Texans against the world, so to speak.
Yeah, that was another big subject brought out
where there's more of a unity here in Texas about us
being Texans, that we relate to that all over.
People from California can do it a bit. People from
Alaska can do it some, and then maybe some people
from Florida. But here in Texas, it's just kind of
the Alamo and, you know, everything that we're
Texas and to hell with everybody else sometimes,
you know. Oklahoma does that some, too. Oh, yeah.
We've got them pretty well trained. We've had them
for actually a quarter of a year, so we've not
gotten good. Yeah. Well, the tape is just about
over. Is there anything you'd like to say that any
impressions that have been made here uh on by texas
on you anything that you remember more than
anything else no i don't i don't know of anything
And, you know, if you'd like to make any particular
comment about it, as I say, I think it's a great
place to hear that I'm fortunate in having my early
life here. I've been very fortunate in being able
to serve my country in many places and in many fine
assignments. have the opportunity to come back
and come to a place like Connors Place and touch in
with some of the local, with young people, the way
it's going to back on in. So you're going to be
welcome. And in the past, I don't believe it's been
much better.